I want to start with a disclaimer.
So you know, sermon is going to be fun when I start with a disclaimer.
You have, you may not know this, you have a 4% chance to be born in America, 4%.
It's like 40 some percent in Asia, 4% chance you can be born in America.
And I want you to know, and I want you to remember this, that I said it.
I am thankful.
thankful that I was born here.
I'm thankful.
I just want you to remember that as we press in to what God has for us today.
It is a very rare opportunity to hit the birth lottery.
And I think we got it pretty good, okay?
I know we got troubles, but I just want you to remember that.
A little disclaimer, I'm thankful I'm here.
God talks about two
massive things that should shape every single follower of his.
He talks about more than that, but there are two really crystal clear ones that we actually struggle with mightily that we're gonna press into today.
The first one is found in one Timothy chapter two, the Apostle Paul writes to his son in the faith, Timothy, who's become a local church pastor, and he tells him these words.
He says, first of all,
All, that's important words, right?
First of all, Timothy, right?
First of all, I urge the supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for all people, for kings, and all who are in high positions.
And he tells us even why it's wise to do so, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life, godly and dignified,
in every way.
Paul goes on to tell Timothy, this is good and it is pleasing in the sight of God our Savior who desires all people, all people.
Let me say it again, all people to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth.
What God tells us through Paul to his son and the faith Timothy, a local church pastor, is here's a really
clear thing that should be a staple of my people who claim my name.
They should pray, make supplications, make intercessions, make thanksgiving for all people, all people.
The second one is in founding John 13 and about a thousand other places throughout the scriptures, especially in the New Testament.
This is Jesus speaking here in John 13.
He says, not only prayer, but I want to talk about this thing
this new commandment that I'm giving you.
He said, a new commandment I give to you that you love one another.
Just as I have loved you, holy cow, right?
So the disciples knew the bar.
Just as I have loved you, you all saw it to love one another.
By this, all people, all people will know that you are my disciples, not that you attend church, not that you give, not that you serve, not that you have a cross in the back of your car around your neck.
By this, all people will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another.
So who does these things include?
I could go on a long list.
But all people includes Israel and Iran.
All people.
It includes illegal immigrants.
No matter your political position, no matter what you think, we could get into an argument.
Should they be allowed?
Should they not?
Blah, blah, blah, blah.
Prayer and love, they fall in it.
The poor and unsheltered, they are a part of all people.
Love does not get classified into a certain financial status or where your home is or the part of the town that you live in.
The ability to pray for all people.
It's not limited to those who you're just like.
It also includes political leaders.
I know.
I didn't say it was easy to pray for them.
I'm just telling you what he said.
And here's the thing.
I want to make sure I hit this real quick.
If you're in the room this morning and you're thinking like, yeah, we should be praying for the president.
That's right.
You get them, pastor.
I want to make sure you were saying the same thing two years ago when it wasn't your president.
I want to make sure you were saying the same thing.
Like if you two years ago when we had a different president, we were like, man, we should be praying for the president.
Are you still praying for the president?
Are you still praying for the governor?
Are you still playing for Congress?
Are you still praying for city councilmen and women?
All in authority and God knew it's not going to be easy.
It's not going to be easy.
Your enemies, your neighbors, that coworker with the cubicle that is super annoying, right?
You put that EGR label on them.
The extra grace required, right?
Right?
Some of you never heard that before.
Now you're going to steal it, right?
And if you don't know any extra grace required people, it's because you are one, right?
That's how you know.
Here's the thing.
I don't want to dismiss this.
If you wear the name of Jesus on your life, then those people and so many more should be on your prayer list.
You know the main reason?
Because they're all on his.
They're all on his.
Martin Luther King Jr. said this, returning hate for hate multiplies hate.
It adds deeper darkness to a night already devoid of stars.
Part of our beautiful calling as children of God, if you claim the name of Jesus, is you get to bring light to a culture and a country and rooms that are devoid of light.
You get to be stars, if you will.
Now, I need you to know this.
I need you to recognize this.
Why is it so hard to do?
Why is it so hard to be people of love?
Why is it so hard to pray for everyone?
It seems like that would be a really easy thing once Jesus invades your life.
Once you realize that He loved the unlovely inside of you.
He loved you in that while you were yet a sinner.
He still died for you.
You think it'd be easy to turn on the love faucet on everybody.
You think it'd be easy to pray for everyone, even the people you disagree with, because we used to be the enemies of God and Jesus still prayed for us in John 17.
We'll get there later on this year.
Why is this so hard?
And I think the reason it's so hard is because culture, our culture, not American culture, all culture is pulling us.
Your social media culture is pulling us towards hate, anger, frustration, and division.
It does it 24, 7, 365 and it never stops.
Why is it so hard?
Because everything in the enemy's world is trying to get us to hate one another because he is the father of hate.
Why it's so hard to love those people because the last thing the enemy wants you to do in our world wants you to do is to love one another.
The ability to love, pray, and live the way of Jesus comes from this very first part of our passage today.
We're going to talk about the king, the king of kings.
And one of the things that as we explore who the king of kings is and who the king of kings is for, what it should do in us is it should actually create a freedom in us to be able to pray and use this weapon of love to change our world.
You see, Jesus didn't need torpedoes and missiles.
He didn't need them.
He flipped Rome upside down with love, flipped it upside down.
went into Ephesus and totally destroyed the work of a false pagan temple with love and service and the good news of the gospel.
Paul literally took prayer and changed the Asian world.
And this is what the king of kings does.
When he is your king of kings.
Let's look at John chapter 12 verse 12 that was read so well to us.
The next day, this is after Lazarus has been risen, right?
Remember that happened in John 11.
The next day, the large crowd that had come to the feast, there's this feast in Jerusalem.
They heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem.
So they took branches of palm trees and went out to meet him, crying out.
Hosanna and that word hosanna is an adoration or prayer and it means please save so they're crying out is Jesus coming in please save and they say blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord even the king capital K of Israel and Jesus found a young donkey and he sat on it just as is written fear not daughter of Zion behold your king is coming sitting on
on a donkey's coat.
And I want to make note of two things in this passage when it comes to who the king of kings is.
The first one is there's these branches of palms.
And branches of palm could have one of two meanings.
It either meant there was a military victory that would be had.
And so they waved branches of palm and laid them down because a great military victory had happened or they were used as an act of worship.
Now we can clearly see by the reaction of the crowd how Jesus
entered the city, the theme of his life.
These palms were about worship, not military achievement.
Jesus wasn't riding into Jerusalem, the conquering hero over Rome.
He was riding in as Hosanna, the one that's gonna go save everybody.
For many in Jerusalem, and still today, the truth is this,
Here's the truth.
This is why we struggle.
We want a king who makes our nation great.
The problem is God sends a king who makes our hearts new.
This was the deepest problem of the Pharisees.
They wanted a king who would make their nation great, who would take out Rome, would re-institute the temple, re-institute the Old Testament law, and they would rule and reign beside him.
And he didn't come to make their nation great.
He came.
to make their hearts new, which is why Jesus was such an unexpected King.
He was an unexpected King.
You see, the hope of the people was that Jesus would restore the Davidic Kingdom from the Old Testament, overthrow Rome, and restore the nation of Israel to prominence.
This was their hope.
They had served for hundreds of years under rule.
But the reality is this, and we can do the same today.
We can do the same today.
We do it all the time.
They wanted a lesser kingdom than this king was ushering in.
You see, sometimes what we can do when we don't have Jesus in the proper framework and we don't see him as the king of kings that he is, we want lesser things than what Jesus actually offers
to us and wants to do inside of us.
We covet these things when God is saying, I got for you abundant life.
We want this to be true of our nation when he's saying, I'm trying to bring in this kingdom that is symbolic of these things and is driven by these things, not just power, money, influence and affluence.
See, the people of Jerusalem, they were settling because they wanted a lesser kingdom, actually, than the one that he came and provided.
And this was so important that Jesus is preaching.
He actually preached about the kingdom all the time in Matthew chapter six, verse 33, he tells us, but seek first the kingdom of the United States of America.
That's not right.
But you can walk into some churches and that's how that verse is interpreted.
is that God blessed America and he didn't bless anybody else.
When revival is happening all over our world.
When people are sending missionaries here now, not us sending them there now.
So he said, but seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness.
Even the famous prayer, the Lord's prayer, right?
He's teaching the disciples to pray in chapter six, verse 10 of Matthew.
And he says, to pray this, your God kingdom come, your kingdom come, not ours,
Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
I want to say this to you and I want you to receive it right.
I want to say this to you because I believe it is true.
Think about your salvation.
Think about when Jesus changed your life.
Think about when He pulled you out of the muck and mary sin that your life was stuck on.
And think about, man, He saved you for what?
Let me just tell you this.
You were redeemed.
for allegiance to a king and a kingdom, not a flag and a country.
I know, I didn't expect you to be loud on that one.
You ever done the pledge of allegiance, but never really thought about it?
I pledge allegiance to the flag.
Allegiance.
The flag did not die for my sin.
The flag cannot save me from the pit of hell.
See, Jesus redeemed us and I have no problem with the flag.
Jesus redeemed us for soul allegiance, capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D to his kingdom and his kingship.
And here's what happens.
When we do this, when we make him king of all kings, he's the only king.
You have my soul allegiance.
Here's what happens.
When we give our soul allegiance to him and his kingdom, that's where we find true freedom to love and pray and witness for everyone.
When we are allegiance to the king, we find out that in his kingdom is room and space.
for everyone and our heart begins to pound for everyone and we want all to be saved and come to the knowledge of the truth, not just them or they or those people over there or the ones that look like us.
When our soul allegiance is to this king and to no one else, that is when we find true freedom.
Now here's the thing, we all can live this kingdom lifestyle.
We all can live it.
We all can love this way.
We can all pray this way in freedom.
We can all be people of love and prayer for everyone.
And maybe you feel at times like, man, I just can't.
I'm just a simple man or woman.
And there's just people that I cannot get down with.
I cannot pray for that individual.
I cannot love that person.
I just can't.
And here's the good news.
If you classify yourself as man, I'm just simple.
I don't think I can do the kingdom stuff.
That's for pastors.
That's for whatever.
Let me just tell you this.
This unexpected king, he is the king of the simple.
He's the king of the simple.
One of his favorite people in the world is the simple.
Look at who he rolled with.
They were all simple.
They weren't complex.
They were tax collectors and fishermen and carpenters.
In a zealot, right?
And a couple brothers.
Look what it says in John chapter 12 verse 16, I love this.
The disciples, and God bless them, right?
They did not understand these things at first.
I feel like that should be on the gravestone of every disciple.
We didn't understand at first, right?
I didn't know what was going on.
The disciples are simple.
They see these palm branches being waved and laid down in his feet and they're like, I don't get it.
I don't know what's up.
Right?
And he's totally okay with it.
He's gonna change them into amazing people of love and prayer in the ministry of the word.
It says, but when Jesus was glorified, then they remembered that these things have been written about him and had been done to him.
Now let me just ask you, aren't you so grateful that God has room for the simple?
Aren't you so grateful?
We are, this may offend you,
We are in central Illinois in a town called Peoria, Illinois.
And if you don't live in Peoria, you live even in a smaller town than that, right?
If you drove down here from Chicago, thanks for being here, right?
We are simple people.
We're simple, right?
We're just simple people.
And I'm so glad that God made room for simple people.
I'm from a town of nothing-knowersville called Dennis in Ohio, right?
You think Peoria's not that bad.
Go to Denison, it is that bad, right?
I moved out for a reason.
I was a drunk, a drunk.
I was a college dropout.
And you know why I dropped out of college?
Because I failed my public speaking course.
God is good, right?
Now I'm making a living off of it, right?
I failed my public speaking course and I was so afraid to take the class again, that I was just like, you know what, I'm just gonna move home and go work.
And God made room for the simple Psalms, chapter 1, 16, 16, 6 says this, the Lord preserves the simple.
Check this part out.
When I was brought low, He saved me.
How low are you this morning?
Could you let God save you today?
How much hate do you have going on in your heart?
How angry are you about our world?
How frustrated are you about who your neighbor is, your coworker, your family?
Are you low?
And he says, and I love saving the simple.
He loves the simple.
Look at one Corinthians chapter one verse 27, but God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise.
It's so good.
I love meeting with people who think I'm smart.
I'm like, man, God's got you so twisted.
I'm not that smart at all.
It's got a really good book and a really big God and the Holy Spirit inside of me who's super wise and he takes this foolish person and he shames the wise.
God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong.
Are you weak this morning?
There's room for you.
God chose what is low and despised in the world.
If that's you, there's room for you.
Even things that are not to bring to nothing, things that are so that no human being might boast in the presence of God.
This is who Jesus was.
Martin Luther King Jr. describes it so well.
A genuine leader is not a searcher for consensus, but a motor of consensus.
He molds consensus.
He takes the simple.
He takes the average person and he says, man, I want to make you into a person of love and your love can have no limits whatsoever.
I know you may be bound up with politics and this and that anger and this frustration, he's like, man, I can take that and change you, change you into a world-changing person of love and prayer for everyone.
But he's not only the king of the simple,
This passage tells us that maybe you in this morning, you're still chasing God.
Maybe you don't feel seen or heard by God.
And you're like, man, I'm searching and searching and searching.
And I keep searching for God and I keep trying to find God and I keep trying to feel God.
And here's what he says, man, I can make you a person of love because I'm not only the king of the searching, I'm not only the king of the simple, I'm the king of the searching.
He's the king of the searching.
Check out what this passage says in John chapter 12 or 17.
The crowd that had been with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb, raising from the dead, continued to bear witness.
Remember, he raised Lazarus from the dead in a crowd erupts and they're all following him.
They're all walking around with him.
They're watching what he does.
And it says, the reason why the crowd went to meet him was that they heard he had done this sign.
Here's something we should never ever get used to
average with Christian church.
Never let us get used to people coming to church because they heard something cool was going on.
Never get used to that.
Never, it happens here all the time.
Man, I've heard, I've heard about what's going on at rituals.
I've heard about how you guys not only talk about being for the city, but you're actually for the city in word and deed.
I've heard about your prayer room and people's lives being changed.
I've heard about the preaching of God's word.
I've heard about the worship.
I've heard about your people, right?
And they come.
And this is what's happening around Jesus.
These people are searching for meaning in life and they're just following him because they heard.
And you may wonder, like how do we, we have a value here that says we welcome everyone.
And I don't know about you, but I think most people wonder, do you really welcome everyone?
You know, I went to a church and they said they welcomed everyone, but they meant everyone as long as I changed within a certain timeframe.
As long as I was transformed in the timeframe that they had set forth that I should be transformed.
They welcomed me, but it came with an asterisk.
And here's the thing.
When you have a king of kings and become a person of love and you are praying for all people knowing that God wants all people to be saved, we welcome everyone because He said everyone could come.
That's why we welcome them.
Remember the thief on the cross?
Remember the people on the cross?
He's beside Jesus.
He doesn't pray the prayer, right?
He doesn't spray that prayer.
I make you Lord of my life, Jesus come in to my heart, save my soul, repent of my sin.
Amen, I'm saved, right?
That prayer you can't find in the Bible.
He doesn't pray that prayer.
He doesn't know the theology around propitiation and substitutionary sacrifice.
He doesn't know any of that.
He doesn't know any of that yet.
He's gonna be in heaven and people are gonna wonder, how are you here?
And the only thing he's gonna be able to say is the man on the middle cross,
He said I could come.
And so you may wonder like, man, why are we welcoming to everyone?
Because Jesus said they could come.
Jesus said they could come.
If you're like, man, I'm gonna walk in this, I thought I'd walk in this church and the water would start boiling.
I'm so sinful.
Man, you notice it didn't?
Everything's fine, right?
Because Jesus said you could come.
John chapter six verse 37, don't miss us.
He's the king of the searching.
All that the Father gives me will come to me and whoever comes,
Whoever comes, who's that limit?
Who does the limit?
Whoever comes to me, I will never cast out.
Matthew chapter 11 is one that we as Christians like to claim as our own and we like, man, if I get tired, I can go to him and he will give me rest, right?
I want you to pay attention to every single word that's in this little verse.
Matthew 11, 28, come to me all.
who labor and are heavy laden and I will give you rest.
There's no prerequisite there.
If you're tired and you found your way here this morning, he's the king of the searching.
He wants to make you a person of love and you can live your life on mission with him.
I want to summarize Jesus' theology just so we don't miss it because in summarizing Jesus' theology,
It should be our theology.
And so as I read a summary of Jesus' theology, can you just evaluate, is that my theology?
Because we should have the same theology.
Here's a summary of Jesus' theology.
They'll come up on the screen one at a time.
His theology was the simple, you can come.
You can come.
The weak, you can come.
He's not just looking for the star football player.
He's not just looking for the head cheerleader.
Your weak, exhausted, worn out, beaten down, abused.
The weak, you can come.
Here's the theology of the center, you can come as a center.
Not clean up and then come.
Go ahead and just come.
That's the theology.
The weary, you can come.
The unimpressive, you can come.
Here's the thing, the kingdom is not awarded to the qualified, but open to the needy.
You know who I find who come up most of the time, Marty, can attest to this?
The people who come up most for prayer are the needy.
That's who come up most of the time.
Those who realize, I can't do this without Jesus.
And if you're offering for me to be able to talk to him with somebody, I'm gonna talk to him.
I'm gonna talk to him.
Now there's one last group in this passage we must address before we press into God's presence this morning.
See, Jesus is the king of kings and he's the king of the simple and he's the king of the searching.
But make no mistake, he is also the king of the skeptic, the scoffer and the sinful.
Man, you seem like you hit everybody.
Now you're getting it.
He's the king of kings.
Listen to what it says in John chapter 12 verse 19.
I love it when the Pharisees, Jesus doesn't even talk to them and they start to argue among themselves, it's really cool.
He's driving them nuts.
So the Pharisee said to one another, you see that you are gaining nothing?
They're like, I told you we should kill him.
Look, the world has gone after him.
The Pharisees begin fighting among themselves.
But look at this, they have been skeptical the whole way.
He is still king.
They have scoffed at him.
They have been sinful.
He still comes in and they say, here's the king of Israel.
R.C.
Sproul said, Christ is King, whether we acknowledge Him or not, but it is grace to bow before Him now.
See, everybody ends up bowing in the end.
Everybody bows.
If you've already bowed to King Jesus, it was the grace of God that led you there.
And those who haven't bowed yet will, and we hope that the grace of God will have them bow soon.
Romans 14, 10 tells us this, why do you pass judgment on your brother?
Why do you despise your brother?
You know what I'm saying?
Why don't you love, man?
Why don't you love?
It should be the most obvious mark of my people.
He says, for we will all stand before the judgment seat of God.
All of us in this room online.
For it is written, as I live, says the Lord, every knee, not some, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God.
So then each of us will give an account of himself, not to us, to God.
Humanity, my friends, will acknowledge him as God.
It is inevitable.
It is written.
It is in the book.
He's going to make it happen.
He will be declared Lord one way or the other.
But there are some in this room this morning.
There are many of you in this room this morning.
You remember when you made him king.
I bet I could go around the room and say, man, do you remember when you made him Lord?
Do you remember when you made him king?
And someone would be like, I don't know the exact day, but it was around 16, 12, 18, 20, 40, whatever your age would be.
But you remember a time where you made him king.
You've repented of your sin.
That's awesome.
You've been baptized.
That's amazing.
And even taking some steps in his direction.
But here's what I wonder.
Maybe this is you this morning.
Whatever, for whatever reason, it doesn't matter.
He hasn't been king recently.
And that heart of flesh that he gave you as salvation is starting to harden up.
It's starting to harden against certain people.
It's starting to hard against certain groups of people.
It's starting to harden up for this reason, that reason.
See, he doesn't have lordship over many areas of your life anymore.
He isn't present in your days thoughts and decisions.
The most you worship was five, 10 minutes ago, 30 minutes ago.
He is a control king rather than the king of kings.
You may wonder, what do I do then?
What do I do?
You repent and you turn back to your king.
If you're here this morning and there's a day you made him king of kings, but you have wandered from your king, the call to you today from the Lord is to repent and turn back.
If you're like, man, I've got areas of my life where I don't love.
I've got people I don't pray for, then you need to repent.
You need to repent.
You need to tell God, I am sorry.
Change me.
Break my heart.
Break it for those people.
Making me weep for those people that I once got hard against.
Do not shame yourself.
That does nobody any good.
But repent and get back to your king who wants
everyone to be saved.
But there are also some here this morning.
I believe with all my heart.
He has never really been your king.
You've been going to church a long time or maybe a short time.
You may even call him God, but you keep him from most areas of your life.
You say you are too simple to know him or you're still searching for proof or you love sin too much for him to truly be king.
If that's you this morning,
I think God is inviting you.
He's telling us who know Him.
We need to repent.
He's telling you to come.
He's inviting you to surrender, which is hard.
He's inviting you to intimacy, grace and love.
He's inviting you to abundant life that you have only dreamed about.
I could bring a few people, a few friends that are in here right now and they could sit with you and tell you about this abundant, not perfect abundant life we have.
It's unbelievable.
He's the kindest person we've ever known.
He's the greatest king we ever could have dreamed of.
He's gentle.
He's compassionate.
He's merciful.
He's forgiving.
He's intimate.
He's with us every single morning and every single night in the valley of the shadow of death, he is our shepherd.
And he is inviting you.
He's inviting you to move your allegiance from yourself to him.
to move your allegiance from this world to him.
Maybe even move your allegiance to this country to him and give him everything.
And you may wonder why.
How can he make these invitations?
How can he have the right to ask me for everything?
And here's why, because he's worthy.
Because he's worthy.
He's worthy.
He's worthy of your entire life.
And I wish I could convince you.
that your life, your allegiance, your love, your obedience, you'll never regret placing into his hands.
So as we go to worship, I just want you to think about, what do I need to do today?
And you can do it right in your seat.
We'll have encounter guides available.
You can go there if you need some help.
What do I need to do today?
I will tell you, if there's someone you can't love,
or you can't pray for, I would start with repentance.
I would start with working on that follow ground of your heart.
I know I have this week and it's been rough.
If you are not a follower of Jesus, accept His invitation today.
Go to Him and say, man, I want you to be my King.
I want you to be my Lord.
I want you to be my Savior.
Have it all.
I pledge my allegiance to you.
Heavenly Father, thank you for who you are.
Stir in hearts in this room and lead them to your cross.
And I pray that tens upon tens of people are making decisions of repentance.
or following you for the very first time.
Holy Spirit, do what only you can do in this room.
Take the word of God implanted in our hearts.
Draw us to yourself and the goodness of God lead us to repentance.
Do your work in Jesus name.
Amen.
Will you stand in worship?